Israeli forces have launched a new
offensive on the jabalia refugee camp in
Northern Gaza residential areas and
shelters for displaced families have
been reportedly uh targeted and several
people have been killed Israel is
stepping up attacks in the southern
areas of Gaza the Army has ordered tens
of thousands of Palestinians to leave
Eastern Rafa the UN says around 150,000
people have already fled the
area to discuss this I'm joined by Diana
buhu Palestinian lawyer and former legal
adviser to the Palestine Liberation
organization it's great to have you in
the studio for once thank you for your
time today thank um as a lawyer is it
legal to displace civilians again and
again and again and I could add 10 Again
absolutely not unless the displacement
is done in a way that is legal meaning
that they were providing shelter they're
providing um adequate medical care
they're providing water they're
providing electricity what Israel's been
doing is just dropping leaflets on
Palestinians they've been yesterday they
dropped leaflets in the North telling
people to flee to the South and then the
South they're telling people to flee to
the north so you have this situation in
which they haven't provided even the
basic necessities of life and so this
this can hardly be called uh legal this
is entirely illegal well I ask you this
because you know I think our viewers
will be familiar with the idea that
there have been many breaches of
international law yes committed by the
Israeli forces in the Gaza Strip for
months now um and we understand you
can't indiscriminately bomb civilians
we've discussed this on air many times
um there are places that should be
protected hospitals schools Etc the the
threshold to attack those places legally
is very high but something we've perhaps
discussed a little less which is
extremely relevant today is you also
can't just displace hundreds of
thousands of people that's right and in
their displacement of them they haven't
been providing the basic necessities of
life you know it's it's important to
keep in mind that not every person is
able-bodied not every person has the
ability to be fleeing you're talking
about people who have been injured
traumatized and Israel has done
absolutely nothing to make sure that
there is a place for them to go not just
that the other thing that they've done
is when they tell people to flee they
they've actually been shown that they're
bombing those areas that they've told
people to flee to so there is no safe
space in Gaza and I think we do a huge
disservice if we somehow think that
there is no place in Gaza safe at the
moment staying with the in the legal
world for a second longer um we know
there's a case against Israel at the
international court of justice the icj
has already said there's plausibly
genocide going on here in the Gaza the
strip now South Africa which had brought
the case initially is asking for
additional uh emergency measures to be
imposed by the court basically they're
asking the court to tell Israel to stop
this do you even want it feels like all
of this is happening in a parallel world
because it has zero impact on the ground
do you even watch these legal
developments anymore I do I do watch
these legal developments because
although they may seem like they aren't
worth anything these legal developments
are going to lead into long lasting
legal developments for example if it's
through these courts that we can then be
pushing for arms embargos to be uh
against Israel it's through these courts
that we can be pushing for sanctions and
it's through these courts that we should
be pushing for boycotts and for
divestment the legal aspects alone we
know that the us is going to do
everything to try to stop those legal
Maneuvers but the US doesn't control the
world and there are other countries that
do believe in a rule of law and the
system of law and it's that system that
we have to be pushing forward not this
idea that might is right okay so you are
watching this closely but more for the
long-term consequences then so let's
talk shortterm what do you think is
Israel's endgame here Israel's made it
clear what its endgame is genocide and
ethnic cleansing and the fact that well
they obviously wouldn't put it that way
they've put the genocide part very
clearly they've made enough statements
of of genocidal intent and the ethnic
cleansing within the first week uh on
this very program they indicated that
they wanted to see Palestinians going
into the Sinai they indicated they want
to see a smaller Gaza Strip fewer in
numbers as well that equals ethnic
cleansing but as you know they've
changed the the reason I I interjected
is because now Israel has changed its
public messaging they are saying at
every press conference that they have
they're saying we are trying to you know
limit casualties to civilians limit
damage to civilian infrastructure etc
etc and yet they still continue to bomb
schools they still continue to bomb
hospitals 30 of 36 hospitals have been
bombed there the the line that they say
in the to the public is very different
than what we see on the ground and what
we see on the ground is genocide okay so
back to the back to the end game what
does Israel want to achieve because
there's still a million civilians left
in Rafa city correct and that's exactly
what they're trying to get at is they
want to make life so miserable that
Palestinians end up eventually leaving
whether it's right now or in the future
you mean out of the strip or out of the
strip entirely in its entirety this is
what they want to to see and theyve
they've made it they've made their
desires very very clear we even talking
about people who are now saying they're
going to rebuild the settlements in the
Gaza Strip so all of it is clear in
terms of what it is that they want the
question is whether or not we're
believing them and the International
Community continues not to believe
Israel even though Israel's made its its
intentions very clear and followed those
intentions with
actions militarily this does not seem to
be going well for Israel I'm no military
expert but they back fighting Fierce
fighting we told in jabalia in the
northern part of the Gaza Strip which
they said that they cleared months ago
and clearly Hamas has a
pretty um pretty impressive I mean
remarkable
ability to just come back where they
were supposed to have been defeated and
even more than that it's been made clear
to the Israeli public that there will no
there will not be any Israelis released
unless there is a ceasefire and this is
why you're now seeing that there are
demands for a ceasefire does that mean
that they don't want to pulverize Gaza
the answer is no the vast majority of
Israelis do believe in continuing to
pound uh Gaza but uh militarily as you
as you said already this is not going in
their favor now since you mentioned the
ceasefire do you think that this that
the the the expanding ground offensive
in Rafa along with the fighting in
jabalia could also be used by Israel as
a bargaining chip this is what they've
been doing so they've been doing a few
things one is they've been uh taking in
and arresting many more Palestinians
mostly abducting them to be quite honest
because they're held without charge
without trial they've been going and
trying to take more land in the Gaza
Strip and the third thing is increasing
the military offensive in the attacks
particularly in places like the South
and in the center as well all right Tibu
Palestinian lawyer uh former legal
adviser to the PLO the Palestine
Liberation Organization thank you so
much for joining us in the studio for
once my pleasure thank you thanks for
having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from aler